So I can definitely encourage you this
concept of like starting how you want to
end, I think is really
important in systems work.
So what I'm suggesting here is that if
you don't model early on how you expect
to interact with your subscribers,
it's gonna be really difficult
to change that over time.
We kind of hinted at this a little
bit earlier, but by default,
contributing to the system is kind of
them collaborating with you, right?
So if we take that as an example, if you
start your stage one work with just,
we're just gonna build
the thing we think you need,
that's not a really
collaborative approach, right?
So if you take that tack at the beginning,
when you come back to them later on and
ask them to start contributing,
that's now you're shifting.
You're changing the mindset from,
you just did the work in stage one now
you want us to help, [LAUGH] right?
So we got to think a little bit about the
patterns we're establishing in terms of
behaviors with each other.
And think about what it is
that you want at the end and
behave that way at
the beginning is one way
to kind of make sure you're
setting yourself up well for that.
I definitely mentioned this earlier,
but this stuff takes a lot of time.
I'm writing a piece now called,
the most critical component in your
design system is time, [LAUGH] right?
It's not the hard navigation or
the whatever footer or
header thing, it's just time.
You have to survive long
enough to show value.
That's the hard part about systems work.
So I think it's really important that
you communicate that to leadership.
I think when they recognize that
you can make the case and say look,
we got to move through these stages.
It's gonna take us time to show value,
but we'll get there.
If they understand that going in,
they're gonna be a lot more
receptive to the need for
more time as you grow and mature.
Regarding adoption we talked
a little bit about this but,
really without trustworthy adoption
metrics, you can't measure anything else.
It's just really hard to do.
So I would say you've got to spend
the time to kind of break it down, and
I tried to cover that in each of those
deep dive sections the ways that you
can go about during that.
But once you have that, the closer you
can get to the money the safer you are.
And I just mean like,
show how much money you're saving, right?
You gotta get to that.
And usually that's efficiency,
that kind of thing.
So gotta connect it to
the dollar bills at some point.
This is another thing I
think is really important.
Let's just say you're hoping that your
system will get you 20% efficiency,
just pick a number, right?
Well, that's great except that if
you're able to do the work 20%
when you have 20% left,
you're doing it at 80% of the time.
That 20% of gain that you're
getting is just, I guarantee you,
gonna get piled in more stuff, right?
Your leaders are gonna be like,
okay sweet,
you can get more done in
the same amount of time.
So what I would recommend is that you
go in at the beginning with a plan for
those gains, right?
Go in saying, hey,
we're gonna be faster eventually.
As we show that efficiency, we're
gonna spend more time in innovation or
quality or whatever it is that
the organization really needs, right?
This is another way for you to add value.
So you might say, let's focus in on,
we're gonna add different
levels of quality metrics to
our work as we gain efficiency.
And so that might mean we're adding in
kind of what you were describing earlier,
a check for accessibility and
a check for inclusivity.
And now we have time to do that stuff
that we just didn't make time for before.
So, if you don't go in with this plan,
I guarantee you it will get sucked
up into something else real quick.
So, you've gotta be proactive about that.
[LAUGH] We didn't talk a lot
about documentation sites, but
I'll say one of the things I've
learned is that discoverability
is really important for
you in your dockside especially.
Basically that's just because
if people can't find the stuff,
they just won't use it.
So you gotta make space.
You've gotta make it so
that it's really easily searchable.
It's worth it to kinda put in lots of
different information using different
language, the stuff that
people might search for.
So just because you call it an alert,
somebody else might
call it something else.
So think about all those options, right?
And think about how you can use
that language to kind of say, hey,
you might also know this as X, Y, Z.
So when people are searching for
these other things,
they're discovering the pieces and
parts that they need to be finding.
And this gets especially important if
you decide to shift the model of your
system away from sort of just that one
system to rule them all, all right?
As soon as you kind of constrained
down on having a more limited core,
like main system and
then allowing product or
feature groups to own their own little bit
of domain as an extension of that system.
Now all of a sudden,
they may be building stuff that
could be helpful to other folks too.
So, there needs to be a place
where that stuff lives so
other teams can be exposed to the work
of other product or feature teams.
So discoverability becomes really
important in all of those situations.
We did talk very quickly
about this concept, but
your system is never
gonna be in sync fully.
It's just almost impossible to do it.
So really just being really transparent
about the state of things and
having a nice clear way to indicate the
state of everything is actually a really
good way to handle that.
Again, it's about sort of aligning their
expectations with what they're
getting to the reality.
And that will go a long way toward helping
build trust and that kind of thing.
Just a handful of resources for you.
Every year Sparkbox does a big
industry-wide Design System Survey.
So you can see all of the past
five years at this URL, and
if you just search Design System Survey,
you'll find that as well.
There's some really interesting data.
It's kind of fun to look at how
things have changed over the years.
So I would encourage you to take
a quick look through those sites and
just see if there's anything that might
be helpful for you, especially if you're
talking to leadership and you just need
some data points, that kind of thing.
We've run some of our own
little studies as well.
So we did one just to show to kind
of like test a theory, right?
Do Design Systems actually have
an impact on our efficiency?
So we did a quick test you can kind of
see the results of that study here again
this is the kind of stuff that sometimes
certain leaders will value this kind of
thing, certain ones won't.
But if you have somebody you're
having a hard time convincing
something like this might help.
I worked with one of my
colleagues to develop,
we just call it a design system calendar.
I think as I got more into this stuff,
I started realizing, boy,
there's just a lot of stuff
here to kind of keep track of.
There's a lot of things,
a lot of activities I should be doing.
So what this does, it's just a really
simple calendar subscription.
It just adds a little thing at
the top like a day-long event.
So it's kind of out of the way.
But if you are interested on a Monday, you
might get a little note that says, hey,
why don't you do an interview
with a stakeholder today.
It's encouraging you to think maybe a
little bit outside of that kind of myopic
sort of let's just make the system better
all day long kind of focus we can find
ourselves in.
So you can subscribe to it here and just
have it show up wherever you calendar.
[LAUGH] And
we try to keep a pulse on what's
happening in the space around events too.
So we'll add things like
that to the calendar too so
you can see those coming up.
I did talk a little bit about
selling design systems here but
I've written a lot more about that.
You can see that on this
solace depart article here.
It's just a big part
of what we have to do.
We are the only sales people for
this stuff, and if you don't sell it,
it's not gonna get bought.
[LAUGH] So
you got to spend time doing that.
So that might be something that's helpful.
There's some conversation in this
article around metrics as well.
I've given you some ideas on things to
track for certain types of leaders.
We also spent a bunch of time developing
a design system maturity model assessment.
So this doesn't cost you anything,
you can just get on this thing and
fill it out yourself.
It's very simple.
You answer a handful of questions and
it's sort of points you in a direction of
where it seems like your
maturity probably is.
And it gives you some really good advice
based on the origin story and the maturity
level that you kind of indicate by
answering the questions in the assessment.
And of course we do much deeper
dives on this stuff if you want,
a third party perspective on it.
I just wanna say thank you so much for
spending all this time with me.
It's wonderful to hear how some
of this stuff has impacted you or
could possibly help you be a little
bit more successful in the future.
I love talking about this stuff so
I would love for you to send me an email.
This is my contact information.
I'm on Twitter and Mastodon and
other socials as Ben Callahan.
And I made a little forum for you if
you have feedback on this presentation,
if you have ideas, if you have stories
that don't line up with this stuff,
I would love to hear those.
I'm collecting lots and lots of data
still, and will continue to do so.
But if you just wanna say hello or
if you have something to share,
please take some time to do that.
And I just wanna lastly thank
my team at Sparkbox for
really surrounding me in this effort for
years now.
I'm really fortunate that I get to spend
a lot of my time doing this research and
just really digging in on this.
I am so
very proud to work with these folks.
They're all delightful.
You can see their smiling
faces on sparkbox.com.
[LAUGH] Thank you all so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]